---
layout: post
title:  "How to Negotiate Spotify Playlist Submission Placement Fees"
author: TuneTipper
categories: [ Jekyll, tutorial ]
image: assets/images/messy-desk.jpeg
---


How to Negotiate Spotify Playlist Submission Placement Fees

As a rule of thumb, you should ***never pay a curator for placement on their Spotify playlists***. Very often, these playlists are bot-fueled and their listeners are often unengaged. Consequently, even if your songs receive plays through such placements, the presence of robotic listeners may lead to your tracks being flagged by the Spotify algorithm as uninteresting. This, in turn, can decrease your chances of being organically recommended to new users.

However, sometimes you reach out to a small curator who asks for a nominal fee to place your song in their playlist. If this happens, you do not have to take their first offer. Try to negotiate!

### Offer Value in Return

Negotiate by offering additional value to the playlist curator. This could include cross-promotion on your social media platforms, featuring the playlist in your marketing materials, or even collaborating on future projects. Do your best to have previous examples of yourself doing this in your social media, so they know you are not lying to get the placement.
### Offer Them Whatever You Can

Are you playing the curator’s town soon? Offer them VIP tickets for the show, as well as free tickets for their followers. Send them your merch or cassettes if you have any. 
### Get Them Involved In Your Music 

Instead of reaching out directly asking for a placement, ask them for feedback or even advice on your music and how to promote it. The best way to do this is to be genuinely interested in their insights. Most curators would gladly give a free placement to someone who they like and trust. 

### Ask For a Free Trial

Propose a trial period to assess the effectiveness of playlist placements. This allows the curator to see the impact of your music before committing to a higher fee. Alternatively, discuss performance-based payments where fees increase based on the success of your music on the playlist. To do this, you should know your Unit Economics, and the overall value of each stream.
### Explore revenue-sharing models

Instead of upfront fees, discuss revenue-sharing models where the curator receives a percentage of the streaming revenue generated by the playlist placements. You can find out where your streams are coming from on Spotify for Artists.  

The best way to avoid having to negotiate for fees, is to not submit your music to untrustworthy curators to begin with. At TuneTipper, we are working on flagging all curators that ask for a placement fee, so you don’t get blindsided and don’t waste your time.

Hopefully, with these 5 strategies, you’ll never have to pay for a playlist placement ever again.


There are lots of powerful things you can do with the Markdown editor

If you've gotten pretty comfortable with writing in Markdown, then you may enjoy some more advanced tips about the types of things you can do with Markdown!

As with the last post about the editor, you'll want to be actually editing this post as you read it so that you can see all the Markdown code we're using.


## Special formatting

As well as bold and italics, you can also use some other special formatting in Markdown when the need arises, for example:

+ ~~strike through~~
+ ==highlight==
+ \*escaped characters\*


## Writing code blocks

There are two types of code elements which can be inserted in Markdown, the first is inline, and the other is block. Inline code is formatted by wrapping any word or words in back-ticks, `like this`. Larger snippets of code can be displayed across multiple lines using triple back ticks:

```
.my-link {
    text-decoration: underline;
